Examples
========

Example 1 - Cloning of a three-fragment plasmid.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In this experiment, we obtained a ~2kb insert and cloned it into a ~10kb recipient vector to create a ~12kb final plasmid. We cut out the insert from the donor plasmid using the restriction enzymes NotI and XhoI and opened the backbone using FseI and SalI. As the overhangs created by NotI and FseI are not compatible, we designed a small adapter fragment with NotI and FseI compatible overhangs. However, now we had three fragments in our ligation reaction - insert, adapter, and backbone. This typically leads to a comparatively low probability of complete ligation and a in consequence a substantial relative background contamination with religated recipient vectors. Accordingly, none of the colonies we analyzed did contain the desired product but only religated background vector. In order to not spend a disproportionate amount of time on screening our colonies, we instead decided to apply a preselection digest. In this particular case, we had designed the adapter such that the FseI recognition site was deleted upon ligation, such that we could safely use FseI for this step. As a result, the number of colonies was considerably reduced, but we were able to directly isolate the desired construct from seveon out of ten colonies. In other cases of three fragment ligations, it may not be feasible or one may not wish to delete a restriction enzyme site in the manner described here, making it necessary to identify a fitting enzyme first (as described in Example 2) - in Example 1, preselector.uni-jena.de did return a selection of four applicable enzymes, including the one we decided to use.

Example 2 - Replacing a fluorophore encoding gene by another.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Here, we aimed to replace the fluorophore in the plasmid pET296-YcpLac111-EF1a-MCP-NLS-2xyeGFP. The vector encodes a mRNA-binding MS2-coat protein (MCP), and its sequence is fused to two open reading frames (ORFs) encoding a EGFP for fluorophore-tagging. However, these original ORFs were codon optimized for expression in yeast, whereas we intended to express the construct in human cells. Therefore, we cut out both original EGFP sequences using the restriction enzymes PmeI and AgeI and amplified two human codon optimized EGFP sequences from another plasmid by using PCR. We digested the PCR products with the appropriate enzymes tried to ligate them into the MCP recipient plasmid. However, despite several attempts, we were not able to obtain a clone with both human codon optimized EGFP fragments integrated. We therefore decided to use a preselection digest that would cut the original recipient, but not the final plasmid. preselector.uni-jena.de returned twelve enzymes, and we chose MscI. This preselection digest resulted reduced the number of colonies after transformation and resulted in the isolation of the desired clone upon the first attempt.


Example 3 - Add a gene specific fragment for CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
A cloning step is also typically required during CRISPR-Cas9 dependent gene editing. To recognize a target sequence, the Cas9 enzyme uses a specific guide RNA. In this experiment, we used a backbone containing a fluorescent-tagged Cas9 and a guide RNA and inserted a custom oligonucleotide in order to complement the guide RNA for sequence specificity. 
We opened the backbone using the BsmBI restriction enzyme at two sites. To avoid the laborious and time-consuming task to identify the right colony after transformation, we applied a pre-selection digest. Using preselector.uni-jena.de we identified three restriction enzymes that we could use for a preselection digest.
It is not hard to imagine a slightly different scenario, in which, depending on the insert, no enzyme exists that cuts the recipient but not the final vector. This can be prevented by making use of the fact that most commercial plasmids include a multiple cloning site which allows the experimenter to choose from a selection of different restriction enzymes. One can simply submit the output of an in-silico digest to preselector.uni-jena.de in order to plan ahead for a putative preselection digest and choose already the enzymes for opening the recipient accordingly.
